---
layout: post
title: Week - 12 :- The final Week. Manual and code documentation
comments: false
categories: [GSoC]
---

The final week in GSoC invloved major bug fixes and improvements to the web application, the source code documentation. along with development of the web application's manual. 

## Manual Creation
The manual for DBpedia Extract was created and hosted on the projects github pages. The manual includes basic information regarding how to use the web application 


- Setting up the configuration, this inclues the following sub-steps
  - Selecting the required methods for the configurations
  - Adding additional input parameters
  - Language
- Running the application on the text
- Understanding the results
  
and descriptions of various use cases which can be done through the application. The use cases include the following:-

- Using Default Hearst Patterns
- Adding additional Hearst Patterns
- Using Dependencies
- Using Lexicalizations

The manual for the web-application can be found here - [link](https://sahitpj.github.io/TE-webapp/)

## Source Code Documentation

functions and different modules used in the web application were documented in the code itself, so that further work can be done smoothly. 

```python
class TripleExtraction(object):
    """
    Stanford treegex utility for extracting triplets. Utilises the stanford coreNLP API for execution. Make sure that it
    is running while running. 
    """
```

The rest of the modules of the GSoC code-base were updated to its latest version. This mainly included the `SyntaxNet-Triples` module which contains source code for the methods used in the process. The datasets and results were also updated.

